[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back to "The Quest
for the Cures Continues,"
folks.
I'm so glad that you
joined us tonight.
I hope that in last night's
episode, Nature's Pharmacy,
you learned a lot about
herbs, and vitamins,
and foods that can
give you health.
We're going to learn
more about that tonight.
The importance of nutrition
just can't be stressed enough,
in light of the fact that even
many medical doctors don't
understand.
Case in point.
A good friend of mine who's
in "The Quest for the Cures
Continues," Dr. Irvin Sahni--
I actually went to
college with Dr. Sahni.
He has texted me pictures
over the last couple of years
of the doctors' lounge at
the hospital where he works.
And in the doctors'
lounge, the foods that
are available for these doctors,
who are supposed to be helping
us to get healthy--
the foods available are
Cheetos, chips, candies,
and they've even got a whole
refrigerator full of sodas.
Diet sodas that are
full of aspartame.
The chips are full of
genetically modified foods,
which we've already
learned about cause cancer.
So these are the health
professionals that
are supposed to be teaching us.
There is a disconnect.
I was able to travel to
Austin, Texas and hook
up with Mike Adams,
The Health Ranger.
The founder of naturalnews.com,
which is the second most
visited natural health
website in the entire world.
And Mike shared with us
some amazing information
about this disconnect.
He elaborated
further about how it
is that these medical
professionals that are supposed
to be keeping us
healthy really don't
understand the importance of
good nutrition on our health.
I know you're going to learn
a lot from tonight's show,
so pull up a chair, grab a pen
and paper, and take some notes.
Hope you enjoy the show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, and it's also a great
example of the astonishing
disconnect that exists in the
mainstream medical system.
>> Right.
>> They think that your body is
somehow disconnected from what
you feed your body.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is astonishing.
>> Isn't that bizarre?
>> Completely irrational,
illogical, unscientific.
Right?
So the good news
is that it becomes
very easy to start waking people
up and start educating people
about what's real in terms
of nutrition and health
because people can
understand this.
We live in a materialistic
type of society.
So if you start with the
material metaphor or a material
explanation, you can make
good progress in this.
You can say, well, look, what
you eat and drink is digested
and it becomes your
blood composition.
Your blood is made of
what you eat and drink.
And people say, yeah.
I get that.
OK.
Great.
Unless you think your
blood is made magically,
which doesn't happen.
So then your blood circulates
throughout your body.
Your blood brings
the materials that
then become your organs,
that fuel your brain,
your cognitive function,
that fuel the function of all
your organs, and that
replenish and rebuild
all the cells of your body.
As you lose cells,
you build new cells.
You replace cells.
So clearly, what's in your blood
becomes your physical body,
right?
And they say, Yeah.
Right.
I get that.
Then you literally are
what you eat physically.
It's an inescapable conclusion.
So if you're eating junk,
if you're eating toxins,
if you're eating heavy
metals, your body, your brain,
your organs, your
skin, everything that's
in your physical body
becomes junk, becomes toxic,
becomes processed.
Not natural.
That idea is not yet
recognized by the entire system
of modern medicine.
With all its claimed advances,
, with all the billions
of dollars that have gone into
the cancer research industry,
they still cannot yet grasp a
simple concept that a five year
old understands
almost automatically.
You are what you eat.
>> So if we want to be healthy,
we need to eat healthy foods.
I've heard it said that cancer
is a disease of malnutrition.
So let's see what Dr. Patrick
Quillin, who wrote the best
selling definitive book
on cancer and nutrition,
has to say about this
ever so important issue.
Beautiful fruit trees.
You've already given
me a small tour.
We're going to take another
one later around your yard.
At least a couple of dozen
different types of fruits.
So I can see from the place that
you live that you understand
the impact of nutrition.
And so talk about the
impact of nutrition
specifically on cancer.
What is cancer and
what does nutrition
have to do with cancer?
>> A broad, expansive sort
of global question here, Ty,
so forgive me if we take
a couple of side spurs.
My book, "Beating
Cancer with Nutrition,"
which has sold a
half million copies
and is considered the
definitive work in that area.
It's been translated
into five languages.
I organized three
international symposia
on the subject of adjuvant
or helpful nutrition
in cancer treatment.
And then a textbook came out
of that, "Adjuvant Nutrition
in Cancer Treatment."
So all of this is not
just hearsay and innuendo,
but essentially there's
five main reasons
why all cancer patients
need to use nutrition
as part of their comprehensive
cancer treatment.
And I'm forewarning, I
would not use nutrition
as sole therapy against cancer.
It's insufficient, but
it is irreplaceable.
And so given that, let's just
think of the five main reasons
why every cancer patient needs
to include nutrition as part
of their comprehensive therapy.
Number one,
nutrition actually is
a big part of the malnutrition.
40% of cancer patients die
of malnutrition, not of
the cancer.
Cancer is a wasting disease.
Appetite is affected.
You end up in the
hospital with food
that you're unfamiliar with.
Chemo and radiation can induce
kikexia, or lean tissue loss.
So malnutrition kills
40% of cancer patients.
The only therapy for
that is proper nutrition.
It sometimes needs
to be aggressive
with a metabolic support
team such as total parenteral
nutrition and other things.
Number two is that
nutrition can help
to make chemoradiation
and surgery more
of a selective therapy.
In other words,
chemo and radiation
are non-selective toxins.
They're cytotoxic poisons.
They kill everything
in their pathway,
and there is what they
call collateral damage.
So a patient who
is receiving chemo
is going to have a certain
amount of hair loss, nausea,
vomiting, weight loss
all as part of the chemo,
but nutrition can make
chemo, radiation, and surgery
more selectively
toxic to the tumor
and less toxic to the patient.
And this is where a very
important part of my message
is to get the oncologist,
and the nutritionist,
and the cancer patient in
the same room together,
and they all have the goal
of beating this cancer.
And the fact is, a
well-nourished cancer patient
can better manage the disease
and the therapies that
are used for it.
So number two is nutrition
makes chemo more of a rifle
rather than a hand grenade.
Number three, we find that
cancer is a sugar feeder.
Cancer is what's called an
obligate glucose metabolizer,
meaning that there is a
dramatic uptake of glucose
in the cells of tumor cells.
If you can lower gut
and blood glucose,
you can help to
slow down cancer.
And there's a number
of therapies now
that target this
whole unique Achilles
heel of the cancer cells.
Number four, we find
that your immune system
is supposed to recognize
and destroy cancer cells.
In a cancer patient, the immune
system has failed its duties.
There has to be some ways of up
regulating the immune system.
So that's a whole
study in itself.
Number five is that nutrients
can become biological response
modifiers.
Back in 1971 when Richard Nixon
launched the war on cancer,
he said, we will have a
cure for a major cancer
within five years, by
the bicentennial, 1976.
We don't.
We don't have a cure for any
major cancer today either.
We have some better treatments.
But essentially, launching
the war on cancer--
and we have now spent in the
neighborhood of $50 billion
in research at the
National Cancer Institute
and over a trillion
dollars in therapies.
And we now have 40% of men born
today can expect to develop
cancer in their lifetime.
In the year 1900, 3% could
expect to develop cancer
in their lifetime.
We've got a problem there.
But one of the things we
know from cancer research
and nutrition research is
that nutrients can become
biological response modifiers.
They change the
way the body works.
A blatant example of that
would be every fall in America,
August, September, about
30 young men athletes
will die from heat stroke.
They're big people.
They're not properly hydrated.
They're out in 80, 90,
100, 110 degree heat.
They're practicing twice a day.
They don't hydrate properly.
And they can die
from dehydration.
The only cure for heat stroke
or dehydration is water.
And so water becomes a
biological response modifier
in those patients.
There are many cancer
patients for whom
fish oil, coenzyme Q, lipoic
acid, curcumin, there's
just a long list of nutrients.
Vitamins, minerals,
probiotics, glandular extracts,
many different
substances that can
become powerful therapeutic
aids for the cancer patient
to restore their host
defense mechanisms.
Because here's the beauty--
a healthy human body is self
regulating and self-repairing.
The cancer patient has lost
that ability for some reason.
The job of everyone in
the hospital and everyone
in the clinic should be to
restore that patient back
to their self-regulating and
self-repairing ability, which
is what nutrition does
as part of the package.
>> So nutrients can change
the way that a body works.
They're biological
response modifiers.
And a healthy bodies should
be self-regulating and
self-healing.
Let's listen to
Dr. Sherri Tenpenny
as she discusses the
relationship of nutrition
to cervical cancer
and the HPV vaccine.
>> And that brings
up another point.
Does the virus cause the cancer?
Or is the cervix, which
is an exposed organ,
has a nutritional
deficiency, the organ
starts to break down
and deteriorate,
and then the virus gets embedded
into that decaying and sick
organ?
And the medical community
says that the HPV
caused the cancer,
when in actuality, I
believe that a lot of
cervical dysfunction
and cervical displasias
are nutritional deficiency
diseases.
And we've treated many of them
in our office with vitamin A,
vitamin D, vitamin C,
natural progesterone,
get them to stop smoking, get
off the birth control pill,
and it clears up and goes away
in more than 90% of people
that we have kept track of.
>> So when you give the body
what it needs to run properly,
it runs properly.
>> Imagine that.
>> Wow.
>> So I suggest, number one,
let's go back to the basics.
I think one of my
jobs as a doctor
is to counsel people on
how to eat appropriately.
And I can guarantee
you, most people
are not eating appropriately.
The standard American diet is
nutrient depleting for people.
It supplies them with
toxic chemicals that
set the stage for chronic
illness like cancer,
and arthritis, and other
illnesses to appear.
And unless they
learn to, number one,
eat appropriately
or eat better, I
think that we're going to still
suffer this cancer problem.
Basic number one is,
let's eat a better diet.
And when we were growing up,
we learned in elementary school
the food pyramid.
And the food pyramid
showed that we
should eat the majority
of our food as grains.
And remember, there
was a big loaf
of bread there and crackers.
And grains were down in that
big part of the food pyramid,
and fats and oils were up on
top and it says, use sparingly.
Well, I could tell you, we
followed that food pyramid
since it was introduced.
I believe it was introduced in
the early 1970s or late 1960s.
And the consequences of
us, the American people,
following this food pyramid
was that we ate more grains,
we limited our fats
and oils in our diet,
we switched our fat intake from
primarily animal fat products
to using polyunsaturated
vegetable oils like corn oil,
and soybean oil, and some
other oils that are commonly
sold at grocery stores.
And the consequences
of that is we've
become the most obese people
on the face of the planet.
We have more diabetes than
we know what to do with.
We have more metabolic syndrome
than we know what to do with.
And I say it's a direct
result of following
the USDA's recommendation of
following the food pyramid.
>> Following the
sad American diet.
>> Makes people sad,
and it makes people fat,
and it makes people diabetic.
And certainly, once
diabetes comes into play,
cancer and other
illnesses follow suit
as the blood sugar goes up
since cancer cells require
blood sugar to function, to
rev their metabolic rate.
>> So Dr. B, you just mentioned
the sad American diet.
The fact that we've got the
pyramid with the grains,
and the oils at the top.
Very few.
Use sparingly.
What should a healthy
food pyramid look like?
>> Well, in one sense, maybe
we could flip the food pyramid
on its access and make
the grains use sparingly
because grains turn
into sugar very quickly.
And I frequently
tell my patients
to limit grains in
the diet and to use
a lot more fats in their
diet because fat slowly
releases into the body.
And so what should it look like?
I say people should eat whole
foods free of pesticides, free
of hormones.
>> Organic.
>> And organic food.
Absolutely.
And organic animal products
can be very healthy for people.
Such as organic eggs,
and organic meats,
and any organic product.
And it definitely needs
to be free of pesticides
because we know pesticides
are not metabolized well
in the body.
There's carcinogenic
studies with pesticides
if we get enough of
them in our body.
And certainly, with the hormones
they're feeding the animals
and the conventionally raised
animals, that's a big problem.
And I think that's one of
the things that's causing one
in seven women to have breast
cancer or one in three men
to have prostate cancer.
>> And also, just off the
top of my head I'm thinking,
so the hormones in the
meats, the chickens,
could that be one of the reasons
that so many young girls are
going into puberty so early?
>> Well, there's no question
that's one of the reasons girls
are going into puberty so early.
There's no question that's
why breast size has increased
over the years, and
there's no question that's
why breast cancer is increased.
And I say for men,
it's prostate cancer.
And there's no reason
they need to feed
these hormones to the animals.
They should be limited.
And since they are
going to feed them
to conventionally
raised animals,
the only thing we can do
is to eat a better diet.
>> Dr. B, I know you've
written several books on diet,
and food, and nutrition.
So can you talk about
those a little bit?
>> Well, I've written these
books because I'm trying
to teach people not to eat that
sad diet and to eat a better
diet.
So the first book
that I wrote was
"A Guide to Healthy
Eating," and just gave
an overview about how to better,
like what we're talking about.
My latest book is
"The Skinny on Fats."
And I try and dispel
the myths of eating
fat, and why we need to
eat good fats in our diet
and why we can't go on
these low fat diets.
I think it stresses the body
out and causes more problems.
And particularly more
problems with people
with chronic
disorders like cancer.
>> Can you talk about good fats?
When you say good fats,
we need to be eating
good fats, what are good fats?
>> So good fats can be from
animal sources that are
organically raised
and organically fed.
>> Butter.
Absolutely.
Butter is a very good
fat for the body.
Organic eggs are the best pure
protein source for the body.
>> I live on five acres in
Texas and we have laying hens.
So we get fresh eggs every day
from our hens that free range.
So I'm with you.
I love eggs.
>> That's the best way to do it.
No question.
>> What about other kinds
of oils to cook with?
What oils should we cook with?
What oils should we be intaking?
I know that one of the oils
that's a staple in our diet
is coconut oil.
>> We were taught in elementary
school on the top of that food
pyramid to use fats
and oils sparingly.
And we were also
taught to switch
to polyunsaturated vegetable
oils like corn oil, and soybean
oil, and those things.
Those things are a
disaster for the body.
They're nutrient depleted.
They're full of
trans fatty acids.
They gum up the
body's receptors.
So I think the single best
cooking oil is coconut oil.
Palm oil is a good choice.
These things survive high
heat cooking very well.
Olive oil is OK for low heat
cooking or just in cool foods.
For high heat cooking,
there's nothing better
than coconut oil.
>> OK.
We love to cook up organic
popcorn in coconut oil.
The kids get popcorn that way.
>> Nothing better than
using coconut oil,
organic corn seeds, and
good salt. Unrefined salt.
>> What about nuts?
What are some good
sources of fats?
Because I know nuts
are almost all fat.
So what's good sources
of fats in nuts?
>> I think nuts
make a great snack.
They supply the
right fatty acids
for our bodies, both omega
6 and omega 3 fatty acids.
And that's going to be
a healthy snack source.
Much better than a cracker
or some kind of grain
based product.
>> But what would you
recommend with the nuts,
should they be raw nuts?
Or roasted are OK, but not
roasted in bad oils, of course.
Not cooked in bad oils.
>> So what I tell my patients
is that nuts do have some
chemicals in them to inhibit
some of the absorption
of minerals in our body.
They're called phytates.
You can minimize that or disrupt
that phytate formation by slow
roasting the nuts.
So in my book, the
guide to healthy eating,
we describe how to
slow roast nuts.
Basically, you just
put them on a tray,
cook them on low
heat for a few hours,
and it makes them much
more tastier and much more
healthier for our body.
But I do think raw nuts
can be an OK snack as well.
>> OK.
But just watch out
for the bad oils.
>> Yeah.
If you look kind on the
container of the nuts,
they'll tell you when
they're made with soybean oil
and they're roasted.
If they're roasted in
soybean oil, or corn oil,
or something like
that, they're not
going to be healthy because
the oil has been hydrogenated
at that point.
>> And now the GMO
factor as well, right?
With soy and corn.
>> That's been a whole disaster.
We're paying the price
for that as well.
>> So Dr. Brownstein just
elaborated on good oils
and healthy fats.
Let's listen to Bob Wright
and Suzanne Somers expound
on this subject.
>> Talk about the good
oils like coconut oil.
>> Well, first of all, if you go
into a supermarket and you see
all the oils there, the
sunflower, the safflower,
the canola oil--
folks, canola oil
is rapeseed oil.
It's used as a pesticide.
It's poison.
Most of these bottles
of oils and cans
sitting on the shelves
in there are already
rancid before you buy them.
They put industrial perfumes in
them to make them smell good.
Don't eat them.
The good oils, of
course, are olive oil.
Extra virgin olive
oil, particularly.
I always like extra
virgin because it's
the least processed.
But you've got to
be careful today.
Like 50% of the extra
virgin olive oils
out there have
other oils in them,
so you've got to know
what you're choosing.
But I like extra
virgin coconut oil.
And I have a couple of
tablespoons every day
because we're seeing remarkable
things with people with
neurodegenerative
diseases like ALS,
and Parkinson's,
and Alzheimer's.
And we're seeing almost
immediate results
with people that use these.
And the folks that
are listening to this
can go up on the
internet and Google this.
You can find the stories.
They're just rife
on the internet
now about how these
people are utilizing
these oils, two to
six tablespoons a day,
and they're seeing
results in 20 minutes.
Of course, you need to do more
than one day in 20 minutes
to get results.
But we're finding that
many people are getting
incredible results all the
way to almost reversing
their sickness and disease.
And boy, this is a great
start because there
are no drugs out there that,
as we know, help these people.
They may ameliorate a few
symptoms for a little while,
but these diseases progress.
Also, we need to detox.
We need to get those heavy
metals out of the body.
But this extra
virgin coconut oil--
the brain in these diseases
stops really utilizing glucose,
and the brain starts to
struggle and suffer for energy.
So the medium chain
triglycerides,
these good fats that we talk
about in the coconut oil,
are processed in the liver
and sent into the bloodstream
and then go to the brain.
They become that
fuel for the brain
so the brain starts
to function again.
>> I probably have four spoons
of coconut oil just on its own
during the day because that's
so healing to the intestines.
And then I use it in my cooking.
Coconut oil is incredible.
In my Suzanne organic
skincare line,
we have coconut oil in
so many of the products.
My products are
certified toxic free.
I don't know of anybody
else who has that.
Organic.
And so certified
toxic free means
it has to be grown organically,
extracted organically,
and nothing upwind or
downwind of the product
can be toxic to contaminate it.
And I'm developing a
nice little business
of people who want high quality
cosmetics, and skin care,
and make up and don't
want any chemicals.
You know, I think
of all the led women
have taken in through
lipstick over the years.
I make lead-free lipstick.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> So coconut oil is
not just great to eat,
it's also good for your skin,
as Suzanne just talked about,
because your skin absorbs
whatever touches it.
And so if you're putting
toxic makeups and perfumes
on your skin, you're going
to absorb them as well.
Now, while we're on the
subject of healthy fats,
I wanted to talk to Dr.
David Jockers, who's
an expert on the ketogenic
diet, which really relies
on healthy fats to help
the body work the way
that it's supposed to.
>> You had mentioned with
the ketosis and the ketogenic
diet--
to me, it sounds almost
like the Atkins diet,
if you remember from 20 years
ago or so when the Atkins
diet was real popular.
>> Yeah.
>> Is it the same thing
as the Atkins diet,
or what is different?
When you hear the ketogenic diet
versus the old Atkins diet--
a lot of bodybuilders that
I knew back in the '90s
went from the low fat
diet to the Atkins diet
where there were literally guys
at the gym who were working out
eating cheese, and bacon, and
peanut butter in between sets.
>> Right.
Yeah.
>> What's the difference between
these two types of diets?
>> Yeah.
That's a great, great question.
I'm really glad you brought that
up because, in general, Atkins
diet is a ketogenic diet.
It does stimulate
ketone development.
And the way that some
individuals teach it,
they're almost identical.
However, what
we're really trying
to promote optimal
health, we've got
to make some differentiations
from the Atkins diet.
So where Atkins went
right was his approach
with a low carbohydrate
diet, getting our body
running off the ketones.
So I'm in total agreement
with him about that.
Keeping our body very
sensitive to insulin.
Very, very important.
However, where I
disagree with him was he
really had no regulation
on the kind of fats
that you put into
your body, and we
want to really focus on good
fats as opposed to bad fats.
So most people in our society
assume that saturated fat
is a bad fat.
What we know is that
actually, saturated fat is
one of the most healthiest fats
we can be putting in our body.
The fats we really want
to avoid are high omega
6 fats from refined vegetable
oils and also from factory
farmed animal meats.
So that's a big one.
And then, of course, trans
fats or man made fats.
So we certainly want
to make sure we're
avoiding those things.
And so we're going to
load up on good fats.
Things like avocados.
Things like coconut oil.
Butter from grass fed cows.
Individuals that can
tolerate dairy protein,
if they can tolerate
casein, we're
going to use things like cheese.
Raw cheese from grass fed
cows, fermented dairy drinks
from, again, grass fed cows.
There's a huge
difference between when
a cow is fed grass and grains.
A grain fed cow actually
grows much larger
and produces a lot more dairy.
In fact, they produce about
20,000 to 30,000 pounds
of dairy in a year,
a grain fed cow.
A grass fed cow produces
about 3,000 to 5,000 pounds.
There's a huge
difference in yield.
Now, the grain fed cow,
though, the grains themselves
are high in this omega 6
fat, and omega 6 fat causes
inflammation in our body.
So the dairy that's coming
from a grain fed cow
is very high in omega
6, very low in omega 3.
That's going to be inflammatory.
And that inflammatory process,
high omega 6, low omega 3,
provides a ripe environment
for cancer cell development
in our body.
So we definitely
want to stay away
from commercially raised
animal products and animals
that were fed grains.
We want to stay away from that.
But we do want the grass fed
animal products because they
have a lot of omega 3s.
An ideal ratio of
omega 6 to omega 3s.
Also, grass fed dairy has
a molecule called CLA,
conjugated linoleic acid, which
many researchers are finding
is a potent anti carcinogen.
There's also other great
nutrients in there.
For example, the major fat
that's in grass fed dairy
is called butyric acid.
Butyric acid is a preferred fuel
source for healthy gut microbes
in your system, and it
helps your intestinal cells
to develop and
actually to strengthen.
So that way, we don't develop
problems like leaky gut
syndrome, and
ulcerations in our gut,
and things like that, which is
extremely important for helping
our immune system.
70% of our immune
systems is in our gut,
and if we have
damage to our gut,
we're going to have a lot of
immune system disorders, which
could include cancer and
other autoimmune diseases.
So this grass fed raw dairy
can have an incredible effect
at helping the gut
to heal and seal
and to control itself well.
So that's why it's such a good
fat source we want to include.
We also want include things
like extra virgin olive
oil, healthy seeds like flax
seed, hemp seeds, chia seeds.
We talked about
coconut products.
That should be an
absolute staple.
Coconut is a superfood.
Very anti-inflammatory and
just powerful for our body.
So these are the kind of good
fats we want to focus on.
We want to stay away from--
again, Atkins never
differentiated
between grass fed and grain fed.
So it was a lot of
commercial animal
products using lard, and
bacon, and things like that.
And the other aspect
of it is that bacon,
I'm really not a big fan of,
just from the perspective
that it is cooked at
very high temperatures.
And it may be nitrate free,
which is certainly a better one
to go with, but
when you cook meat
at a very high
temperature, you're
going to produce a lot
of carcinogenic products.
Things like heterocyclic
amines, polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons,
acrylamide, and these
are known to cause cancer
growth in our body.
And so high heat or highly
processed animal products,
even if it's properly
raised, can also
be a factor with
cancer set of elements.
So we want to look for
animal products that
have been minimally processed.
And when we cook them, we want
to cook them more medium rare.
So a lower temperature, and
just cooking them for less time
so that way we produce less
of those heterocyclic amines.
And there are a lot of
different strategies
that people can apply
with marinades and things
like that to utilize
the animal products
and minimize the production
of carcinogenic chemicals.
>> Do you ever
recommend fasting?
>> Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
>> For their health and
for cancer patients.
>> Absolutely.
And you just brought that up.
And so just talking about the
ketogenic cleanse, I mean,
it is a fast.
And I'm a big fan of
intermittent fasting.
It's something I do
every single day.
And I think it's a critical
piece of a cancer killing diet.
You know, really, when
we break down fasting--
I want all our listeners
to understand this.
I look at a building phase
and a cleansing phase.
So our building
phase is the time
between our first
meal of the day
and our last meal of the day.
So the typical American,
they might eat at 8:00 AM
and finish eating at 8:00 PM.
So that's about a 12
hour building phase.
And then the
cleansing phase would
be the time from our last
meal to our first meal.
That's like a one to one ratio.
In our society today,
we've got so much toxicity
that it's that
much more important
that we have a greater cleansing
phase than building phase.
On top of that,
the great thing is
when we're on this
ketogenic diet,
our hormones become balanced.
Insulin and leptin, which
is our satiety hormone--
so it helps us say that
we're no longer hungry.
We're satisfied.
They become very balanced.
Our body becomes
very sensitive to it.
So we're really not as hungry.
And so for myself, I like to
have anywhere between a 16
to 18 hour, and sometimes
even a 24 hour cleansing
phase on a regular basis.
Like we're doing
this interview here,
it's 11:30, 12:00, I haven't
eaten anything yet today.
I worked out this morning.
And you know what?
My blood sugar is
extremely stable.
I feel really good.
I feel really mentally clear.
Now, I'll typically
eat around 1:00
or so, and then finish eating
by, let's say, 6:00, 7:00,
and so that's really
my building phase.
And so I've gotten all
the nutrients I need,
but my body's also been able
to really cleanse and detoxify
as I've gone through
this cleansing phase.
And on the cleansing phase,
like, for example, the fasting
this morning, I've drank
probably about a half gallon
of water so far today.
So water is key because I want
to move toxins out of my body
and I want them to
just recirculate
as they're being released
as my body is breaking down
fat cells.
>> Interesting information
on fasting from Dr. Jockers.
And he mentioned grass
fed meat several times.
Why is that important?
Because you are what you eat.
Animals are what they eat.
Let's listen to Dr.
Ben Johnson describe
why it's so important that
animals are properly raised.
What does your diet look like?
>> My diet that I want my
patients eating looks green.
Very green.
Vegetables.
Lots of vegetables.
All kinds of vegetables
in all forms.
But key to that is the
fresher, the better.
So cutting to you, the
less time, the better.
If you have your own
garden, that's awesome.
And then secondly is
organic, because you
don't want those
pesticides, and chemicals,
and artificial fertilizers and
things working against you.
So fresh, raw,
organic are the keys.
Vegetables, and then
nuts and fruits.
And I do allow my patients to
eat small portions of meat.
I want it to be organic,
free range, or wild
caught harvested.
>> So the way that the animals
are raised affects the meat.
>> You know, we have all these
studies showing that two eggs
a week causes increase
in prostate cancer,
and red meat causes
colon cancer,
and all of these studies, but
you don't see anybody comparing
organic free range eggs
against pen fed chickens.
You don't see the
free range meat.
So I would love to see
those studies done.
Of course, no drug company
is going to fund those
and no independent farmer
has the money to do that.
I don't think the
meat, the eggs,
the things are the problem, I
think it's what we do to them.
We put a chicken or a
cow in a pen, or a hog,
and we feed them
genetically modified corn.
That's not their diet.
I mean, they're out there
eating grass, including
the chickens, and crickets.
And so they're out
there eating things
that when we raise
them commercially,
that's not what
we're feeding them.
So now they have concentrated
genetically modified corn
and other chemicals
in their body,
and then we eat that and
concentrate it in ours.
So I'm not a vegetarian.
I have no problem
with vegetarians
as long as they get adequate
amounts of protein, which
is sometimes difficult to do
unless they're educated as
to how to get those.
And there are
certain amino acids
that you just don't find
in vegetables at all.
But we have nice
supplements these days,
so you can go to a supplement
store and get those.
So I don't have a problem with
a patient being a vegetarian,
but I certainly
don't have a problem
with them being omnivarian
because we need protein.
Especially our immune
systems need protein.
I just want it to
be healthy protein.
>> I don't know about you, but
when I eat some good grass fed
meat or some pastured poultry,
I like to put some spices on it.
One of the spices that I
like to include is sodium.
We've heard a lot of
bad things about sodium.
It's gotten a bad rap.
It's been demonized.
You should not include
sodium in your diet.
But is that true?
Let's listen to a man who's
written a book on sodium,
Dr. David Brownstein.
>> Dr. B, I know you've
written a book about salt.
What bearing does that have
on our conversation here?
>> Well, Ty, we've been talking
about sort of doing the basics.
You know, eating a better diet.
One of the other
basics is making
sure you maintain adequate
hydration, drink enough water.
Taking iodine I consider
one of the basics.
And salt is one of the four
basic things people need.
Our bodies need and require
adequate amounts of salt daily.
Salt is the second major
constituent next to water
in our body.
The immune system can't
function well without salt,
a hormonal system can function
well without salt, and iodine
can't work in the body without
adequate amounts of salt.
So I consider salt
one of the basics.
I check salt levels on every
patient that comes in the door.
I can tell you the vast
majority are salt deficient.
And so when I talk about salt,
as I write about in my book,
"Salt Your Way to Health,"
there's good and bad salt.
I would say an inadequate
form of salt is refined salt.
It's the little white crystals
that we're all used to.
They fit in the salt shaker,
and they're real fine,
and they contain a
little bit of iodine.
But they only contain sodium
and chloride, a little bit
of iodine, and they
have toxic chemicals
such as ferrous cyanide, they
have some bleach properties,
bleach chemicals in
them to make it white.
>> Make it white.
>> That's not a good product.
A better product
is unrefined salt,
which has over 80 minerals in
it, lesser amounts of sodium
and chloride.
It doesn't have a
lot of iodine in it,
so therefore you need to
supplement with iodine.
But this is a staple that
people need in their diets.
The adrenal system can't
function well without salt,
the thyroid system can't
and the immune system can't
function well without salt.
And iodine works much better
in the body with salt,
as salt helps to
usher out bromide
and fluoride in the body
while you take iodine.
>> OK.
Wow.
So many diets I've
heard about, people
that think they're getting
healthy, they say, OK.
I'm not eating any more
salt. Not a good idea.
>> Not only is it not a good
idea, it's a disastrous idea.
And eventually, the adrenals
get overstressed from this
and don't function
well, but it's not
good for the immune system.
It's not good for
fighting cancer.
People need salt in their diet.
It's a staple.
Human beings have needed salts
since the beginning of time.
We were designed by
our maker to need salt.
How much salt?
About a teaspoon a
day for most people.
The latest studies that just
came out in the New England
Journal of Medicine
verified what
I've been saying for
the last 15 years.
I blog about this and write
about it in my newsletter
as those studies came out.
You can look at the curves.
It's very easy to look at them.
You see high mortality rate
on the low end of salt intake,
and then it goes down.
And it doesn't really matter
how much salt you use.
Maybe at very high
rates there's problems,
but people aren't going to
eat that amount of salt.
They just need the
right kind of salt,
which is unrefined salt
such as Celtic brand sea
salt, Redmond's Real
Salt, the Himalayan salt.
I've tested all three
versions of those four times.
I didn't find toxic
agents and I found
adequate amounts of minerals
in all of those kinds.
I think those are very
healthy forms of salt.
>> Dr. Brownstein mentioned that
one of his four pillars is that
you drink plenty of water,
which only makes sense since
your body is 75% water.
So you technically are
what you drink, aren't you?
>> If we really look at our
body, 3/4 of our body is water,
if we're properly hydrated.
Most people are not.
We know that 70%
to 80% of America
is chronically dehydrated, so
that's another whole problem.
But why is water important?
Water, believe it or not,
functions in every system.
From joints to the brain
to the blood is 93% water.
So people don't think--
even down to the bones
are 13% to 22% water.
So water is everywhere
in our system,
and it's critical to health
that we are properly hydrated.
When we are not
properly hydrated,
our metabolic rate is
reduced, our thought processes
are reduced, the toxins that
we are supposed to be removing
are not happening,
and so our bodies
are taxed and
burdened with having
to do that in other ways.
And so we end up
with skin issues,
we end up with a lot of
different pathology just
as a result of
chronic dehydration
because we're not
putting water in.
I call water our filtration
system for our body.
So when we bring water
in to our system,
we want to void out that
same amount of water,
but take some things with
it that we didn't want
in our body in the first place.
And that's the way
I look at water.
And if water is structured
properly, it will do that.
Free radicals are
missing an electron.
Our cells functional
electrically.
Our bodies are
electric and we have
a lot of electricity
and electrons
that are flowing in our system.
And ultimately,
without electrons,
cells don't function properly.
And the way free radicals
harm us is they go and steal
electrons from healthy cells.
>> So a free radical is what
that's missing an electron?
>> It's an oxygen.
>> Oxygen.
>> So a free radical is an
oxygen missing with one of its
eight electrons.
So it only has seven electrons.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> So typically oxygen
has eight electrons?
>> Mhm.
>> OK.
And a free radical
is an oxygen atom
that is missing one of them.
>> That's right.
>> OK.
>> So what it will do is it
will go throughout the body
and steal electrons from healthy
cells that are weaker than
the oxygen itself and
take it from them.
Well, when it does
that, that cell
no longer functions
appropriately
or can't function at all,
depending on what kind of cell
it is.
So that's why free
radicals harm our system.
If we take out a percentage
of our cells not functioning,
we lessen the entire
effectiveness of our system.
It's like taking part your
engine away in a vehicle.
It's not going to go.
>> Right.
>> So in our body being
taxed, and taxed, and taxed,
not only toxins, but we're
actually oxidizing ourselves.
Or that's what free radicals do
is they're stealing electrons,
and electrons are the fuel.
It's got to function
electrically.
You've got to have
those electrons.
So when we have
water that's properly
structured with a negative
electrical charge,
for instance, there's a
net gain or an increase
of one electron, which
can be donated to complete
those free radicals.
It's basically what
an antioxidant does.
Any antioxidant that people are
choosing has an extra electron,
and that's how
antioxidants function
with the cellular system.
>> So then they donate that
extra electron to the oxygen
atom that's missing
the electron.
>> To the free radicals.
Yup.
>> And it basically
completes the oxygen atom.
>> That's right.
>> So your blood is 93% water.
Wow.
And properly structured
water acts as an antioxidant
and is rich in minerals,
delivering them your body.
Minerals are important.
Let's listen to
some experts talk
about the difference between the
old diet, the primitive diet,
and our modern diet full
of fast foods and virtually
worthless foods.
>> There's over 300 studies
showing that a diet rich
in fruits and vegetables can
dramatically lower the risk
for most cancers.
That should be enough evidence.
Meanwhile, the United States
Department of Agriculture
complains that the top
three most commonly consumed
vegetables in America is
ketchup, French fries,
and onion rings.
And I know that sounds
humorous, because those are not
vegetables in my opinion.
They're highly processed.
Ketchup is mostly
sugar, corn syrup.
And the others are high
in hydrogenated fat.
So there's very few vegetables
and fruits being consumed.
The government sort of bends
rules to basically accommodate
big business.
>> If you look at every simple--
I'm using the word simple rather
than primitive or aboriginal--
society, cancer is unknown.
In other words, a famous
Harvard Researcher
called Vilhjalmur Stefansson--
I'm not sure how to
pronounce his name.
It's obviously a Norwegian
or a Swedish name.
>> Works for me.
>> My best shot is
Vilhjalmur Stefansson.
And he lived with Eskimos
for about 30 years.
I shouldn't say Eskimos.
Inuit, but you know what I mean.
He lived with them,
and he ate their food,
and lived their lifestyle.
And at first, he couldn't
tolerate the diet.
It was about 50% fat.
It was just slopping
with grease in the dish.
So he said, no.
I can't take it.
I'll eat more the Western way.
And within a few weeks,
he was pretty sick
and he had to eat their way.
As soon as he did, his
body recovered enormously
and he was really fit and well.
He was out on the ice.
He could walk 50 miles in a day.
He was a really
fit man for his age
and brought back a
very interesting story
and wrote a book.
But basically, in all his
time in that territory,
he never saw a case of cancer.
And it's pretty well
unknown amongst the Inuit.
It's only when they
came into the bases,
started eating the
burgers and the colas
that they started to get
diabetes, heart disease, cancer
the same as the rest of us.
And that's a picture
that repeats itself
all over the world.
Do you know Albert Schweitzer,
the famous humanitarian?
He went to work in
the Gabon in Africa.
And he said he never
saw a case of cancer
in anyone that was living
the natural lifestyle.
He directly
attributed it to food.
He was pretty sure
that was the reason.
They just eat differently.
It's tempting to think,
well, it's genetic.
You know, the Inuits are
just strong against cancer.
And they do eat a lot of
selenium from the seafood,
and we know that's protected.
The real killer
in the story, Ty,
is if they go and move into
a different environment
and eat somebody
else's diet, they
get sick as dogs just the
same as the rest of us.
So it's not really
a genetic factor.
But that's pretty stark,
epidemiological evidence.
You almost don't need
any other cause of cancer
if you know that people
living the natural lifestyle
in the Stone Age or aboriginal
way, like a hunter gatherer,
and keeping their lifestyle
pure never gets cancer.
>> Our food has been hijacked.
Our food has been degraded
to the point where
it no longer holds nutrition
that a human body needs
for support, and nutrition
is the fuel of the body.
So the higher quality
of food you put in,
the more your body
will operate at max.
It's all kind of simple.
>> It makes too
much, doesn't it?
>> Right.
I was doing a radio
interview the other day
and they're talking about the
obesity epidemic with children.
I said, let's just
stop for a minute.
Do you really think
by giving kids
smaller sodas and
less French fries
that that's going to
tackle the obesity issue?
I said, no one wants
to call it what it is.
The kids are eating chemicals.
Processed foods, packaged foods.
And chemicals-- I remember when
I was interviewing Dr. Russell
Blaylock.
He said, they design chemicals
to taste scrumptious.
So if that's the
first food a kid gets,
he said, you have to bribe them
to get a floret of broccoli
in them and a piece of
chicken so that they can have
the foods they really love.
And that's what needs to
happen in schools is education
about there are no safe
levels of chemicals
for any human body.
That needs to just be known.
>> I agree with Suzanne Somers.
We are what we eat.
And if we eat chemicals, we're
going to become chemicals.
Let's listen to cancer
survivor Chris Wark share
how he cured his cancer
changing only his nutrition.
>> And so what did
my diet look like?
It was very simple.
And I think a hard core
nutritional approach to cancer
needs to be very simple because
there are a lot of options
out there.
It can get very complicated.
And a lot of people,
they're seeing
so many different
directions, they don't even
know where to go and
they get paralyzed.
And so I realized, OK.
What is the most fundamental,
foundational part
of my healing approach?
And that's food.
I've got to get as much
nutrition in my body
as I can from the earth.
And so I started juicing
and I drank about 64 ounces
of vegetable juice every day.
Mostly carrot juice.
I ate giant salads full
of cruciferous and allium
vegetables.
That's broccoli, cauliflower,
kale, cabbage, onions, garlic,
peppers, spinach,
all that good stuff.
>> Sounds good.
>> Yeah.
>> Making me hungry.
>> Just the amazing giant salad.
We shared one at
Jason's Deli recently.
Yeah.
Just a giant salad full of
all this really amazing food
from the earth that
was put here for us,
and I had that twice a day.
And then I would
make fruit smoothies
with a fresh
coconut and berries.
Two cups of blueberries,
blackberries, raspberries,
strawberries.
Berries are very potent
anti-cancer fruits.
And that was it.
That was the daily diet.
And it was every day, and
I did that for 90 days.
It was 100% raw
food for 90 days.
>> What does an anti-cancer
diet look like in your office?
>> Well, we teach our patients--
I'm not the nutritionist,
but I do instruct patients.
First of all, you
have to eat foods--
mostly vegetables.
I don't care if they
eat fruits, but you
have to eat a low sugar diet
because cancer feeds off
of sugar.
Dr. Otto Warburg
won a Nobel Prize.
He said that cancer cells
thrive in a fermentative energy
source, which is sugar.
On the cancer cells, the
receptor sites for sugar,
that's how we do a PET scan.
When you give a
PET scan, you give
it radiotrace glucose and
the cancer cells light up
or they don't light up.
And they light up because
they're eating the sugar
or they don't.
So you've got to get
people off sugar.
People are addicted to sugar.
Sugar is a poison, it's a
toxin, and it paralyzes the cell
from doing their job.
We have this blood test
called the hemoglobin
A1c, which is a reflection of
your blood sugar over 90 days.
It is an aging marker.
Your body has what they call
glycosylation taking place.
We know that at
a certain number,
with the electron
microscopy Johns Hopkins
has written on this,
that the cells change
after a hemoglobin
A1c greater than 5.0,
which is considered ideal.
So you have to get off sugar.
I don't care how you slice it.
Yeah, there are people
that can eat sugar
and they have
great blood sugars.
Luckily, they're blessed,
but most people are not.
I mean, if you look
at the statistics, 70,
80 million people
are pre-diabetic.
So that means they're already
very increased risk of cancer.
Then you have the diabetics.
Then if you look
at children, one
in three children after the
year 2000 have diabetes.
The complications of
diabetes are everything.
Your eyes, your circulation,
your heart, your immune system,
everything is nonfunctional.
Amputation of limbs.
Probably that's the number one
reason for amputation of limbs
is from high blood sugar.
So you've got to get off
sugar, and then you've
got to get off the things
that turn into sugar.
So the things that
turn into sugar
are bread, rice,
pasta, and potatoes.
>> It's illogical.
Because, you know,
most cancer patients
will say I went for
chemo and the doctor
and the nurse told me any
calorie is a good calorie.
Eat this cake, eat this
cookie, eat this donut.
Just keep the weight on.
Totally oblivious to the
very well articulated,
clearly demonstrated biochemical
truths about don't eat
sugar, don't feed cancer.
So I'm not a fan of the current
standard of care for cancer,
and I can assure you
that most oncologists,
if they were honest with you,
would say the same thing.
They might say it's
the best they have,
but they're not happy with it.
I don't think anybody's
happy with 2.1% or 2.3%
benefit over five
years, which is
what the research
shows chemotherapy
will give to an adult.
>> Again, Dr. Brad Weeks shared
the five year success rate
of chemotherapy--
2.1%.
Not very good, is it?
And what about processed foods?
You know, the foods
that are on the shelves,
they have 50 plus ingredients.
You can't pronounce
most of the words.
Should we eat those?
Let's listen to
Dr. Rashid Buttar.
Question for you.
You mentioned earlier
one of the toxicities
involves the food
toxicities, and you mentioned
genetically modified foods.
Let's talk about that.
If you've got a patient
that's a cancer patient,
what do you recommend as far
as their diet and whether
or not they should eat
genetically modified foods?
What kind of cancer diet would
you recommend for somebody
to, let's say, prevent cancer
as opposed to treat it?
Just a cancer
preventative type diet.
>> Clean.
>> So they should
wash their food?
Is that what you're
saying by clean?
>> Clean.
As clean as possible, meaning
that it should be organic,
range fed.
In my book, "The Nine Steps
to Keep the Doctor Away,"
I actually specifically
talk about food.
And people have
asked me many times,
when are you going to write
a more detailed book on food?
And I said, I've actually
got one written on that too,
but I'm never going
to put that out.
Why?
Because I want people to
become empowered rather than
becoming dependent on a book.
So it's a very,
very simple rule.
G stands for God,
M stands for man.
If God made it, it's good.
If man made it, it's madness.
Simply follow that rule.
So if it's butter and doctor
said don't eat butter,
it's fat, this, that--
it's not man made,
it's God made.
Eat it.
If it's margarine,
it's man made.
Use it for lubrication
in your car's
axle, but don't use
it for anything else.
So that's my general rule.
High protein,
lower carbohydrates
because protein is part of how
the body regenerates itself,
whereas carbohydrates are fuel.
We have too much fuel
in our diet nowadays.
We needed more fuel
when we were more back
in a paleolithic
ancestry, but that's
because we had to hunt our food.
We don't hunt our
hamburgers now,
and so we don't really
need as much fuel anymore.
So you need more of a
rebuilder protein component
and you need less of the
carbohydrate fuel component.
So my general rule
is man made, madness.
God made, good.
Eat as clean as you can, meaning
organic, range fed, et cetera.
Fruits, vegetables.
If you're going to eat meat,
then eat range fed meat.
And eat as healthy as possible.
And people know.
When you start explaining
that to them, well,
what about reading ingredients?
Well, read the ingredients.
Well, how do I know what's good
for me and what's bad for me?
If there's two
things in the food
that you're eating that you
don't know what they are,
that's enough to say,
I'm not going to eat it.
Now, I happen to know a little
bit more than the average bear,
so when I'm reading
it, I understand
some more of those things.
If there's EDTA, if it says
ethylenediaminetetraacetic
acid, I'll still eat
it because that's what
I infuse into patients anyway.
It's a chelator, so I'm
not worried about it.
It's a preservative.
My rule for general
people, if you
don't know more than two
ingredients, don't eat it.
>> A whole food, predominantly
plant based diet is
an anti-cancer diet.
Period.
There are more
anti-cancer medicines
in a diverse whole food diet
than the cancer industry will
ever come up with, regardless
of how many billions of dollars
they spend on research.
There are anti-cancer
compounds in celery,
and anti-cancer
compounds in beets,
anti-cancer compounds
in the white stuff
inside the orange peel.
When you peel the
orange peeling off,
you should leave that
white layer on the oranges.
>> That's right.
>> On the pieces.
Eat as much of that as possible.
It's anti-cancer.
Anti-cancer elements in
red wine and red grapes.
Resveratrol, we talked about.
Anti-cancer elements
in seeds and nuts.
There's so many that
modern science--
it will take us hundreds
of years to even begin
to understand the anti-cancer
potential that's found
in a grocery store right now.
>> Yeah.
>> The other big aha in all of
this is that it gets us back
to the amazing power of a
common sense, whole food diet.
When you look at,
hey, there might
be toxins in some
of these foods,
but if you actually
eat whole foods,
there are natural
things in there
that will absorb the
toxins without you even
knowing about it.
So as I have done this research,
what it has really done
is given me more and more
respect for mother nature,
and more amazement at how nature
achieves balance and protects
your body from toxins in the
environment through things
that you never
were even aware of.
I mean, who ever knew that
eating strawberries as a kid
that strawberries were
blocking the mercury?
>> We just thought
they tasted good.
>> Exactly.
>> I believe that in 50 years,
we're going to look back
at food now the way we look
at smoking 50 years ago.
You know, there were
commercials with doctors
with cigarettes in their
hands saying that cigarettes
are good for you.
And we would all agree
that that's laughable now.
That that's absolute
insanity and criminal.
And I think that's
probably what we're
going to be saying
about processed foods,
and McDonald's, and sodas,
and things like that 50 years
from now.
How crazy it was
that we'd freely
put that stuff into
our body and build up
a level of toxicity probably
similar in some ways
and maybe even
worse in some ways
than from smoking cigarettes.
>> I agree with Dr. Sahni.
The standard American
diet today will one day
be looked upon as ridiculous
as smoking cigarettes,
literally giving us disease.
>> For me, it's very
important what goes in.
That means also purifying,
cleaning the water.
Talk about structuring the
water as well, because there's
an energy to water.
That's why homeopathy
is so amazing.
That goes beyond merely
filtering it and cleaning it.
So there are other nuances
to protecting ourselves
from cancer.
There's always
something more to do.
But at the proverbial
end of the day,
just do what you have
genuine control over, right?
You can't do that
which you can't.
That you can turn over to God.
Pray on it.
But that which you have
control of, we are asked to do.
We can't slack off on that which
we have genuine control over.
To choose cleaner foods, to
choose cleaner waters, to not
do certain things that we
know are self-destructive.
These are within our power.
We're asked to do that.
We can't abuse the privilege
of life and say, well, nah,
I don't want to do that one.
Ultimately, we have
to take control
over that which we have been
granted and given control over.
>> And one of the things that we
have been given control over is
the quality and the
amount of food that we put
into our mouths.
This next quick interview
with Dr. Irvin Sahni
is an excellent example
of putting into practice
the knowledge that
you have been given.
>> I'm here in Austin, Texas
tonight with Dr. Irvin Sahni.
Dr. Sahni, thanks
for joining us.
>> Thank you.
Thanks for having me.
>> Now, you look a lot different
than you did about five months
ago.
You were a participant in
"The Quest for the Cures,"
and you shed a lot
of information,
valuable information with us,
but you've lost a lot of weight
since then.
>> I think it's the goatee.
>> The goatee?
>> Well, you do have a goatee
that you didn't have before,
but can you tell us what else
has happened between last May
and current day?
>> Yeah.
The whole project
really inspired me.
Probably was a little less
than completely satisfied
with the way I looked on
camera, but I was also
inspired and interested in
improving my overall health,
and that resulted in some
pretty significant weight loss.
So a lot of it I got from
"The Quest for the Cures,"
and some of it I got from
some research I did on my own.
Primarily some
intermittent fasting.
>> What was it specifically
in "The Quest for the Cures"
that you learned about
that got you on that road?
>> Well, I can't remember
which speaker it was,
but I heard about
the ketogenic diet.
>> Dr. David Jockers.
>> David Jockers.
And I implemented something
called intermittent fasting.
And that basically,
in my case, I
chose to use a window
of about six hours.
And that six hours can
slide a little bit,
but for me, it was
between noon and 6:00.
And so I would only eat
between 12:00 and 6:00,
and outside that,
I only drank water.
Now, conceptually separate
from that, I also minimized--
eliminate is probably
a little too difficult,
but I minimized dramatically
carbohydrates, sugars
and carbohydrates, from my diet
down to about 25 grams a day,
in some cases even
15 grams a day.
And that's pretty tough if
you're eating some vegetables
to go much lower than that.
>> And so what's the purpose in
eliminating the carbohydrates?
>> Well, carbohydrates
have a number of effects,
and I think some of this
was covered in "The Quest
for the Cures," but it
spikes your insulin.
And so when you get
up in the morning
and you have a big bowl of
cereal, you spike your insulin,
and then you're hungry as your
insulin comes back down very
quickly.
So you have a bowl of Froot
Loops at 8:00 in the morning,
and now you're ready for
lunch by 10:30 or 11:00.
And that has a lot to
do with the insulin.
Sugar has an addictive
effect for some people.
It makes them want
to keep eating.
And the other thing
I did is I also
eliminated gluten from my diet.
So I eliminated any form
of wheat, breads, pasta,
any form of wheat.
And I don't eat rice either.
At that point, I wasn't
eating much rice either.
So I eliminated
carbohydrates, sugar,
and went on an
intermittent fasting diet.
I didn't actually
exercise because I
wanted to separate
diet from exercise
so I could sort of figure
out how much I could eat
or the way I could eat in
the absence of exercise.
And now, of course,
I've added exercise in
for the last couple
of months and seeing
even more dramatic effects.
But I've lost about 50 pounds.
>> 50 pounds, which is like
a third to a half of a normal
person.
>> It's a lot.
It's a lot.
Had a big drop in my body
fat, increase in my energy,
look better, feel
better, and I think
I've also increased my insulin
and leptin sensitivity.
I probably was pre-diabetic.
I don't know that for sure, but
I imagine that I probably was.
You know, of course,
I was overweight.
And so I think also there's
obviously benefits for cancer.
Cancer prevention,
boosting my immune system,
and also reversing any
sort of inflammatory.
Sugar is very inflammatory.
So I reduced my
propensity to have
a lot of different diseases,
including cardiac disease.
And so I believe now
after the research
that I've done that
cholesterol is not
the major issue in
cardiac disease.
It is an issue, but
I think sugar is
an even more important issue.
So I think your cholesterol is--
I'm not saying that
it's not important,
but when you minimize or
eliminate sugar for your diet,
the cholesterol becomes
much less of an issue.
>> So you, a medical doctor,
learned from "The Quest
for the Cures," you
implemented that knowledge,
and now you lost 50 pounds.
And you're my college
roommate, so you look
as good as you did in college.
Just as healthy as
you did in college.
>> That's good.
>> It's great to
see you this way.
It's great to see
you healthy again.
And I really appreciate
you joining us tonight
to share your story.
>> Thanks a lot.
Thanks for having me.
>> Wow.
That's an amazingly powerful
story from Dr. Irvin Sahni.
"The Quest for the
Cures" back in the spring
influenced him to such an
extent, a medical doctor,
that he totally
changed his diet,
and now he's lost 50 pounds.
And I went to college
with Dr. Sahni.
He looks as good as he did back
in college, maybe even better.
So what a great story to hear.
What a great,
encouraging story for you
because you now understand,
coming from a medical doctor's
story, that you
are what you eat.
Did you know that certain
of the diagnostics that
are used today to detect
cancer actually cause cancer?
They increase your
risk of cancer.
Do you know which
tests are good?
Which tests are bad?
There are many tests that are
noninvasive tests that do not
increase your risk of cancer.
But many of them, as I said, do.
Tomorrow night, you're going
to learn which ones do.
You're going to learn
about the good tests
and you're going to
learn about the tests
that you should stay away from.
And not only that,
we're going to begin
to teach you about natural
treatments for cancer.
As a matter of fact, there
are so many natural treatments
for cancer that the
next three episodes
are dedicated to that topic.
I hope you learned
a lot tonight.
And I know you're going to
learn a lot in tomorrow night's
episode, so I hope to see
you back tomorrow night.
In the meantime, enjoy your
evening and God bless you all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, Marlon Glenn, my friend.
I'm so excited to be able
to talk to you tonight.
We're here outside
of Detroit, Michigan.
>> Welcome to Detroit, Ty.
>> Thank you so much.
I'm so glad to be able
to wear this shirt.
I told you a little story about
almost losing the clothes.
>> I told you I had to
apologize on behalf of Detroit.
I wanted your first experience
to be a good one, not luggage
loss.
>> It has been good thus far.
But I'm so excited to be
able to talk to you tonight.
What I wanted to do
with you, Marlon,
is get your perspective.
You're a teacher--
>> Yes, sir.
>> --in a local
junior high school.
>> Correct.
>> And I know based upon
your past experience that
you've told me that you are
trying to really help the kids
clean up their diets.
>> That's true, Ty.
>> To be healthy through food.
>> Mhm.
>> And so one of the things
that we focus on here with "The
Truth About Cancer: The Quest
for the Cures Continues,"
is we're trying to teach people
how to eat well, eat clean.
>> Right.
>> To help them to realize
the impact nutrition has
on their overall health.
And you're trying to do that
as well in your school system.
So tell us a little about
you and your family.
You've got a
beautiful family here.
Can't see them on camera, but
they're watching us right now.
>> Right.
>> And tell us about your family
and about what you're trying
to do to help kids be healthy.
>> You know, Ty, a few
years ago, my sister,
she passed away.
She had an aneurysm.
She was only 37 years old.
And my wife and I, it just
kind of threw us for a loop.
Because when you have
one of your siblings
who's younger than
you when she dies,
it kind of makes you
contemplate things.
You kind of think
about, you know,
maybe I need to do a better
job of taking care of myself.
So I just jumped
headlong into it.
I changed everything.
I probably changed too
much too fast for my wife
because I got a little pushback.
When you change
everything, you stop
the McDonald's, the fast
food, the whole thing,
the kids were like, what?
You serious?
We can't eat these
things anymore?
Are you kidding?
But I was serious because my
mind had been made up about it.
And as a father, and you're
a father as well, Ty,
you know how important it is
for us to lead our families.
>> Right.
>> I have two daughters, I
have a son, I have my wife,
and I'm accountable for
what we bring into the home
and for what we do.
So I took that
responsibility seriously.
And I said, OK, well, if I'm
going to embrace this change,
it can't just be about
letting Marlon be healthy.
I have to let the whole
family be healthy.
And then I take that same
mindset into the schools.
I work in urban districts.
And in those districts, they're
known for very poor eating
habits.
I mean, you can
see people coming
in first thing in the morning,
Ty, you see hot Cheetos,
you see Twinkies, cupcakes,
and this is breakfast.
You know, they'll have a
full two liter Mountain Dew,
and that's what they're
eating and that's
what they're drinking.
And I said, you know, I
can't just watch them do this
and not say anything.
You can't just educate
the mind and not
educate the entire
body, the whole sphere
with what's going on.
So I told them one day, I said,
look, I'm going to tell you
what, what are you eating there?
Oh, these are hot
Cheetos, Mr. Glenn.
This is so good.
It's good.
Can you pronounce
what it's made out of?
if you can pronounce
every ingredient
on the back of this bag,
the next bag is on me.
Nobody could do it.
Nobody could pronounce it.
>> Got about 50 ingredients.
>> The mindset
has to be changed.
You and Robert have all said,
we have to start with that mind.
Changing how we look at things
and changing how we react.
At another school,
I had a health fair.
The funny thing
is, Ty, if you say
we're going to have basketball
tournament, everybody comes.
If it's a sporting
event, everybody's there.
I said, I want to
have a health fair.
Initially, I got
resistance because people
are thinking, health?
Health fair?
Who wants to come to that?
That sounds boring.
It's unimaginative.
Nobody wants to do it.
It was the most attended
event of the school year.
>> Really?
>> It really was.
Because I got behind it, I found
people who shared a vision.
It's amazing when
you have people
who share your vision
of a better life
because at it's core,
everybody wants a better life,
but they may not
understand how to get it.
You know, we have to get
beyond that marketing.
It's been my mission
to try and help people.
I'm not saying I'm an
expert on anything.
I'm not saying I
know everything.
I'm not saying that.
But what I do know, I'm
willing to share that.
>> I want you to share--
this is something that really
impressed me a couple of years
ago when we first
met in Chicago.
Tell the story about
when you gave your kids
the opportunity,
the choice, do they
want to go to learn more
about their bodies and health
at the health convention, or do
they want to go to Disneyland?
>> OK.
Very well.
You know, we always listen--
I discovered Robert
Scott Bell just kind of,
you know, you surf on the web
and one link leads to another
and one thing leads
to something else.
So I found Robert.
So listened to his
show, loved it.
Downloaded all of his podcasts.
And, you know, the kids
went to school with me.
So we drive to
school every morning
and they're listening
to Robert Scott Bell.
And we know that you
came on on Wednesday,
Dr. Buttar was on Monday,
Dr. Frank King was on Friday.
They knew the schedule.
So as we're driving, you
know, summertime comes
and my wife is saying, you
know, what's our family trip?
What are we going to do?
My aunt in North Carolina,
they always go to Disney,
want to go to Disney.
You know, kids want to go.
Wife, she's hyped.
Oh, we're going to Disney.
We're going to Disney.
I looked at the calendar
and said, wait a minute.
That's the same time
as the health fair.
She looked at me, Ty,
she said, health fair?
Health fair?
We're going to the health fair?
She was mad.
She was hot.
I told the kids, I said,
what do you all want to do?
I just laid it out there, Ty.
I didn't coerce them.
I don't know if it's
because I was the dad,
they may have been intimidated.
But I said, what do
you all want to do?
You all want to go
to Disney, or you
want to go to the health fair?
Oh, we got to go
to the health fair!
We got to go to the health fair!
The first thing they said,
will we see Robert Scott Bell?
I said, yeah.
He'll be there.
Oh, yeah!
We got to go to the health fair!
Got to go to the health fair!
My wife, at first when we
got there, Ty, she was hot.
She was so mad I don't
think she even spoke
to me when we were down there.
Didn't speak to me.
But as time went on, she kind
of-- when she met Robert,
the kids met Robert, it
was an amazing experience.
He was teaching and I
just tapped him and said,
you know, we're really
big fans of yours.
The kids love you.
He embraced us, you embraced us,
and I think that broke the ice.
The energy of what this
does is so powerful.
When you get around like
minded individuals who
all are striving
towards the same thing,
it's transformational.
And it's not even something you
can even compare to a Disney.
I mean, Disney is transient.
You go, you ride, and it's done.
But this is a life
experience, a life journey.
You know, as I reflect
back on going to Chicago
for the first time, we look back
and say, look where we started
and look where we are now.
Having met you guys,
you know, these are now
lifelong relationships
with a common goal,
and we're going
forward from there.
>> Yeah.
Well, that's really impressive.
And I'm glad you shared
that because I wanted
to show the listeners here, the
viewers of this "Truth About
Cancer" series that you've don't
have to be a medical doctor.
You don't even have to
be a full time researcher
to make changes.
>> That's true.
>> You are impacting the lives
of your children, your family,
the children that you teach
at the school that you teach
at, and you are on a
mission to help educate.
And that's one of our goals
with "The Quest for the Cures"
is to educate the masses about
cancer, about nutrition, about
the way that you can
take control of your life
and live a healthier life.
So we share the same
mission, brother.
>> You're right.
And when we were in
Asheville, North Carolina,
you said we change
one mind at a time.
We change one mind, they change
a mind, they change a mind.
One step at a time.
>> That's right.
Well, Marlon, it's been great.
I appreciate you taking
the time tonight.
>> You're welcome.
Again, welcome to Detroit.
I hope the rest of the trip
is pretty good for you, Ty.
>> It's going to be good because
we're going to leave from here,
we're going to go down to Whole
Foods and get some organic
food.
>> Sounds like a plan, buddy.
>> All right, brother.
>> All right.
>> Take care.
>> Likewise.
[MUSIC PLAYING]